I've attached a screenshot of the patch view, but it's kind of a tangle.
Reaktor flows from left to right. There are subpatches inside the Carrier
and Modulator, with phase modulated sine waves and basic envelopes. I'm
also attaching a simplified block diagram. I know the DX synths use phase
modulation of wavetables, so I'm guessing that's the most efficient method.

Here's a rundown of the panel controls:

1. Ratio controls the integer frequency relationship of the two sine
waves. At 12 o'clock, the ratio is 1:1. Turned to the right, it increases
the Modulator in whole number steps. Turned to the left, it increases the
Carrier in whole number steps. Ideally this is a 20 position switch or
encoder.

2. Fine adds an offet of 0-1 to the Carrier's ratio setting.

3. Depth multiplies the Modulator's level by an Attack-Decay envelope.

4. Feedback multiplies the Modulator's modulation of its own phase.

5. Trans offsets the pitch of both oscillators in octave steps.

6. Volume multiplies the Carrier's level by an Attack-Decay/Release
envelope. We've talked about maybe making it overdrive past a certain
point. 12 o'clock would be convenient because we could use a pot with
center detent.

7. Mode has not yet been implemented in the mock-up, but the idea is that
it could select between monophonic, polyphonic and unison modes (and if
the hardware supports it, stereo detuning when a cable is plugged into
output 2).

8. Porta slews the incoming MIDI pitch to both oscillators.
********* not exactly sure how this should work

9. Velo multiplies incoming MIDI velocity by Carrier envelope, Modulator
envelope, Both, or Neither.

10. Fixed disconnects the Modulator from the incoming MIDI pitch and sets
it to note number 63, but does not disconnect it from Trans.

11. Sustain toggles the Carrier's envelope between AD and AR behavior.

12. Attack and Decay controls are for typical exponential envelopes,
though we could go linear for vintage Yamaha character. The AD/R for the
Carrier includes a sustain phase at max level toggled by the Sustain
control.

Pitch wheel is +/- one octave range routed to both oscillators, except the
Modulator ignores it in Fixed mode.

Mod wheel adds a very small offset to the Modulator's frequency, to get
slow phasing interactions.

CC control of every parameter seems reasonable, especially since there's
no LFO.

In effect, you get a very basic hands-on synth where Depth is the FM
amount/brightness, Ratio is the basic spectral profile, and Fine gets all
the dissonant bell tones in between the whole number ratio steps. Feedback
makes it raspy, noisey etc; you know the DX sound. One envelope for the
volume, one for the timbre. I guess we're basically trying to boil down a
set of FM controls to something similar to a basic 1 oscillator
subtractive synth, which users seem to be able to grasp/explore fairly
easily even if they don't understand what it's doing.

